There's one more nuance to consider when we look at conversion reports.
Reports in Google Analytics use last click conversion attribution.
That means that a conversion you see is attributed to
the last channel the consumer interacted with before coming to your site.
For instance, I see a user enter the site from a social channel,
and in that session the user purchases.
Google Analytics will attribute the conversion to the social channel.
However, more often than not,
that's not an accurate representation of what actually happens.
Many times, more marketing channels are
responsible for the conversion that happens on your site.
For example, the user may see a search ad,
click on it, and visit your site,
but not buy anything then the user sees a display ad and visits again,
but still does not buy.
Finally, the user sees a post on social channel for your product.
Seeing the last post,
the user decides to click on the link in the post and buy a product on your site.
The last interaction was with a post on the social channel,
so Google will by default,
attribute to conversion to the social channel even though the search ad in
the display ad the user saw before had
an influence and helped the user decide to buy the product.
Channels can play different roles in helping the conversion.
There are three roles defined in Google Analytics: last interaction,
that's when the channel immediately precedes the conversion, and assist interaction.
Any referral that's on the conversion path,
but it's not a last interaction.
First interaction, that is the first referral on the conversion path.
The multi-channel reports allow you to take
a closer look at the different channels that leads to a conversion.
The top conversion paths report shows all of
the unique sequences of channel interactions that led to conversions,
as well as the number of conversions from each path and the value of those conversions.
The time lag report shows how many days passed between
the first interaction and last interaction for your users conversion paths.
This can give you insight into the length of your online sales cycle.
The path length report brace out your conversions by the number
of channel interactions contained in your user's conversion paths.
This can tell you how many times a user typically returns to your site before converting.